## Network Anomaly Detection in Cybersecurity

Anomaly detection has been the main focus of many researchers’ due to its potential in detecting novel attacks. However,
its adoption to real-world applications has been hampered due to system complexity as these systems require a 
substantial amount of testing, evaluation, and tuning prior to deployment.

Our project aims to help the field experts in Cybersecurity and non-experts by notifying them of potential malicious 
activity and its nature. This dataset was generated by the Canadian Institute for Cybersecurity (CIC) and the 
Communications Security Establishment (CSE) to leverage anomaly detection techniques to detect network intrusion.

The attacking infrastructure includes 50 machines and the victim organization has 5 departments and includes 420 
machines and 30 servers. The dataset includes the captures network traffic and system logs of each machine, along with 
80 features extracted from the captured traffic using CICFlowMeter-V3.[[1]](https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ids-2018.html)

We make use of AWS Sagemaker to do pre-processing, EDA and model training and testing.

The dataset used in this project was "A Realistic Cyber Defense Dataset (CSE-CIC-IDS2018)". It was accessed on 14th 
Nov 2021 from https://registry.opendata.aws/cse-cic-ids2018

### Concatenating the dataset
We process the csv files into a pandas dataframe and also reduce the memory utilization. We do this in [Preprocessing 
for Pickling file](Preprocessing%20for%20Pickling.ipynb).

### Cleaning the dataset
We clean the dataset of all outliers and invalid entries in [Unpickle, Clean and Drop](Unpickle,%20Clean%20and%20Drop.ipynb)

### Exploratory Data Analysis
We look at various correlation heatmaps which are by class labels and the entire data distribution as a whole in 
[EDA](EDA.ipynb).

### Baseline model
We train and evaluate a baseline model in [LogisticRegression](LogisticRegression.ipynb)

### Model selection and hyperparameter tuning
We evaluate 3 ensemble models on the sample of the processed data and then perform hyperparameter tuning on the full 
dataset in [Model Selection](Model%20Selection.ipynb)

### References
[1] https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ids-2018.html
